a piece of paper no matter how
prestigious it is isn't going to
guarantee you a job ever what's going to
guarantee you a job is work ethic and
really believing in yourself and getting
up and trying again and again and again
this isn't the 24th century religion
this is like the white middle class work
ethic religion yes it sucks sometimes
and yes it's hard but at the end of the
day completing it makes you a better
person if you are dropping out of
university if you have dropped out of
university or whatever it is that is not
money wasted I remember when I quit
university I was bawling and I basically
said to my dad I feel like I wasted a
bunch of money and my dad said did you
learn something and I said well yeah of
course I did and he said well then it
wasn't money wasting aren't you open to
the idea that some people learned
nothing or some people learned so little
that they can't justify fifty thousand
dollars worth of debt in my personal
opinion there is no such thing as a
going nowhere degree even if your degree
isn't going to directly translate into a
job it doesn't mean that that doesn't
help you learn who you are and learn
what your contribution to this world is
doesn't that sound a little bit too much
like an impossible to prove religious
concept and not something we could ever
pin down and measure as true false or
half way true or false in the social
sciences did you find your true self did
you figure out who you were supposed to
be in the positive contribution lay the
world Yes No maybe so 40% of people who
set out to get a bachelor's degree drop
out I am one of those 40% in different
cultures around the world human beings
have always created rituals to mark the
transition from childhood to adulthood
I remember once seen a documentary film
of a young man in Papua New Guinea who
had to be stung by about a hundred bees
and then do a ritual dance next to a
fireplace to prove that he was no longer
a boy but a man and he had to show no
pain
weeping or in everyone he was stung by
these bees or Hornets or whatever they
were and they the shaman prepared for
this ritual they would take the bees and
trap them in a kind of woven fabric trap
them alive and then wrap it around the
young man's hand like a glove he would
dance with this glove on his hand that
was full of stinging Hornets
if this sounds barbaric to you let me
just remind you I'm half Jewish Judaism
they still have this great idea has to
do with cutting off part of your penis
that's the difference between being a
man Wow who thought of that male
circumcision female circumcision gee you
know what I'll go with the bee stinging
ceremony okay but in our culture today I
think we do have magical attitudes
towards university towards college
education and we have to every so often
stop and challenge yourselves what is it
that we believe is so special what is it
that's supposed to make a man out of us
in all this weeping and dancing and bee
venom in my personal opinion there is no
such thing as a going nowhere degree
even if your degree isn't going to
directly translate into a job it doesn't
mean that that doesn't help you learn
who you are and learn what your
contribution to this world is but if
that were true it would be falsifiable
right so without getting into a huge
digression into Karl Popper and the
philosophy of science and the concept of
falsifiability right doesn't that sound
a little bit too much like an impossible
to prove religious concept and not
something we could ever pin down and
measure as true false or half way true
or false in the social sciences did you
find your true self did you figure out
who you were supposed to be and the
positive contribution way the world yes
no maybe
what your contribution to this world is
do you think we can pull college
graduates do you think how would how
would anyone know if this were true for
themselves how would we know if it were
true or false for others I gotta say
sling you for me subjectively what she's
describing here and throughout the rest
of the video none of it was true I don't
see any of this value in college
and when I look at the other people in
the classroom with me thinking back to
when I studied the philosophy of Plato
I don't I okay that was a small
classroom there was not a single student
in the class who was getting more out of
being forced to study the philosophy
that I was but it's so easy to commit to
this kind of coming of age mythology
like oh no no this is where you discover
your true self this is where you gain
mysterious magical abilities like
so-called correct critical thinking and
when somebody asks you to define what
critical thinking is and how we can
actually test whether or not you have it
right what what if someone asks you to
define knowing who you really are in
your life's purpose and so on and can we
actually test who didn't have that at
the start of college indeed getting it
from college and where did they pick it
up along the way was it intro to English
literature was it being forced to read
Shakespeare's sonnets was it the process
of sitting in a room and discussing
homoerotic imagery in Shakespeare's
sonnets was that what did it for you
what when exactly did the bee stings
help you make the transition from being
a boy into a man I'm being sincere when
I say this a lot of people are living
with unexamined hocus pocus about what
college is supposed to be and what for
each of us and all of us it really is
just because you're getting a humanities
degree
doesn't mean that you aren't going to do
something important later on as long as
you put in the effort and the work once
you figure out what you want to do I
personally think University is a great
place for people to network figure out
who they are
figure out work ethic and figure out how
to think critically this is the part I
completely disagree with and let's be
clear there's some things here I
sympathize with Anissa Joan was trying
to turn her own life around you'll see
she's reflecting on the fact that she
dropped out of university herself and
she regret said you'd like to go back to
school now so on and so forth if you
think if you think that networking is a
reason to go back to university you're
dead wrong and I went to what is in
theory the most elite University in
Canada okay once University of Canada
and I guess that must be worth something
on my CV now but supposedly that's the
best of the best
what kind of networking are you gonna do
sitting in a classroom with a bunch of
sullen teenagers who are staring at
their phones and who are being forced to
read the philosophy of Plato Aristotle
sovereignties who are sitting there oh I
don't even know why I have to read this
anyway my parents forced me to major in
political science so I could be a lawyer
afterwards nor have to read this crap
you made your own even knew was invested
with it dude that's that's you're
sitting there with you're sitting there
with a bunch of people who have
absolutely no interest in what the
professor is saying until the bell rings
at the end of the hour and he starts
talking about the football game that's
coming up in the weekend and they all
sit up I've been in that situation a bit
set up I've been a situation where the
other students they get interested when
the professor starts talking about
footballs oh damn this is what you're
paying tens of thousands for you're in
the classroom people dragging their feet
through this you cannot hope or expect
to find colleagues or intellectual
equals or any worthwhile people among
the students the hardest thing to accept
of all is that you can't even expect to
find worthwhile people behind the podium
amongst the professor's because just as
bored as the students may be with the
philosophy of Plato nine times out of
ten the professor also is bored also as
donors if you get to know the professor
he's going to tell you something
similar that Sookie like oh well I did
my PhD thesis on the philosophy of Hegel
I don't know why I'm forced to teach
this classic book Plato I don't even
want to be here you know I had a fight
with the administrator for the
department and know I have to teach the
stupid class I didn't want to teach no I
obviously I'm an older dude but even
when I was a kid he when I was a
teenager I used to talk to professor's
about how did this course end up on the
schedule how did you end up teaching it
dude really it can be that bad you
cannot go to a department of political
science and expect to meet even one
person who's interested in politics not
one student not one professor and I mean
that about elite level universities even
more than a vote kind of run-of-the-mill
average your Middlebury universities I
put in a department we could and you
might think oh well that's only true of
service the people are studying because
they want to make money like go to a
department of dentistry and nobody's
really interested in dentistry that is
one of me way no I was in the department
studying Cree and a jib way First
Nations languages indigenous languages
you might think oh the only people we'll
meet there will be really passionate
about saying the service no I did not
meet one person who wanted to study the
language amongst all the students and at
a special meeting with two of the
professor's they weren't encouraged me
to get a masters degree and PhD in the
department and I said to them look I
can't study a language if there isn't
even one other person for me to talk to
do you know a single student other than
myself who actually wants to learn this
language and they both sat there and
they were both pretty sullen and mopey
and they both said no so you can be in a
department of classical ancient Greek
philosophy where there's not a single
other students that you can be an
apartment of something obscure like
Korean a German I have been in an
apartment of Asian Studies where
nobody's interested in the history or
politics of Asia you know in each each
one of them when he gets in those
students they have a different reason
for why they're there there was one she
flunked out of chemistry well flunked
out of the chemistry program I didn't
know what to do I already speak Chinese
or decided to get a degree in Chinese
literature she doesn't want to be there
she doesn't want so do not take this
mythology and make out of it an
expectation that you impose on the other
students in that classroom these are all
things that are very hard to learn in
life and things that University just
automatically bestows on you if you give
it a chance what a claim so you know
again you've got to think about karl
popper's criterion of falsifiability do
you really think that critical thinking
it's something that people lack who
haven't been university and that people
have bestowed upon them binders and if
so how would we test for that right what
is the test what is the exam for these
other nebulous qualities people
supposedly acquired University because
I've got to say something I've met
people who dropped out of college and I
met people who dropped out of high
school who are much more intelligent
than other people who have PhDs right it
some of you in the audience you may not
have that experience I really have that
experience okay I've known some
unbelievably stupid people with PhDs
from elite universities it's real
okay getting a PhD it's mostly a test of
how much money your family has how
willing they are to part with it and the
extent to which you as a student are
just a gormless conformist the extent to
which you're a spineless pushover who's
just gonna go with the flow in the
system that's about all it's testing
it's not testing your intelligence
creativity Verve tenacity it's not even
testing your hard work it's not but what
is critical thinking or any of these
other things you know if if you can't
measure it it probably doesn't exist not
any more than an openly religious
concept like being saved or enlightened
right and this is this is some sense of
being a person who has a sense of
purpose and mission and guidance in life
that she's saying you gain but going to
university and I know how many thousands
of people do I know who've been through
this and who come out you know really
broke it hearted because they lack all
of those things and they feel they
didn't gain any of the
so 40% of people who set up to get a
bachelor's degree drop out I am one of
those 40% this is the part this is the
part I sympathize with and as much as
I'd like to say that I have zero regrets
that would be a lie because I have a lot
of them I was in university for three
years and it taught me an amazing amount
of being able to see the world in a
creative and different way and be able
to question the things around me that's
interesting I'm not gonna discount her
experience if you really believe that
that really is your experience
University that's interesting and I'd
like to know more but for a lot of
people our experience was I showed up
and I got a bunch of like insane
lectures that just reflected like
specialized monomania of the professor
so like an English literature you happen
to have one professor who was obsessed
with homoerotic imagery in Shakespeare
maybe it's not that maybe I don't know
if you guys know there's a thesis that
Shakespeare was secretly Catholic you
these people who go through all the
texts and they collect the little bits
and pieces that suggests Shakespeare
sympathize with the Catholic Church not
the Protestant Church and they put you
know if that was what your professor was
obsessed with you spent hours and hours
hearing about this you know complete
nonsense that had no real use even
within the world of English literature
it's just indulging that professors
personal obsession among many a lot of
us come out with a patchwork of these
eccentric meaningless experiences and of
having to conform to the whims of that
professor in order to get a decent grade
in an exam that in the end we we learn
nothing from where we walked away saying
oh all of learned is how to sit in a
room with a really broken human being
and listen to them talk about their
their personal pet projects you know and
if you think that gets less depressing
in the Department of Political Science
where there are consequences involving
dead bodies and so on I would say it's
much more depressing
I certainly resent much more being lied
to about real history with a real body
count than being lied to just develop
how you interpret a poem you know and
I've really I've really had to sit
through that and you know I try
different I tried everything sometimes I
try to channel
professors sometimes I try to be the one
using Socratic method and sometimes I
try to go with the flow just to see what
would happen what if what if I go with
what if I go with the present is it was
this gonna lead us you know yeah yeah
and you know what my conclusion is you
can't win and what is winning mean
winning means learning and this is that
I think I've learned winning means
getting an education and my experience
of the university system is there is no
way to get an education out of this
system I I really I really mean that
and as brokenhearted as I may be by my
own experience the university system the
other irony is it's only people like me
that the system works for it's people
with my work ethic people who can be a
total autodidact people can just take
the library card go to the library do
the research write the paper with the
zero guidance and the professor and zero
feedback and people who can be satisfied
that I did good research and I wrote it
up and I published it all by myself
you know those are the people who can
benefit from the system as it exists now
and and that's me and it's not people
like Anisa is right Vanessa Anissa
whatever pronunciations like Anissa is
is describing here kind of aimless
teenagers I mean those those I think are
those are people who are really set up
to fail by the system if you're dragging
your feet when you walk through the
library door you shouldn't be at a
university at all you know we got a
stack of books here so I could actually
put the books on camera but let's not
bother but you know I said to molest the
other day I had like just three or four
books on a set of topics in the history
of China I saw so if you just look at
these three or four books unless if you
really sit down and read these and took
notes if you really studied these four
books thoroughly you would learn more
than you learn in a university degree
from here University of Victorian Asian
Studies like you know if you really
learn with these books and that's the
truth most people go through four years
and they don't really learn as much as
you read in a thorough detailed
examination of a small
like say four really good books they're
all on the same kind of overlapping
specialized Soviet with that and I know
it a nice look something that always
surprised me most I really talk to
people on campus like his his you know
most of the classes I took at UVic I
spoke to and got to know like every
single student in the classroom and when
I was University of Toronto in the
smaller classes too cuz I had a lot of
classes there only eleven students you
get a sense most people are not doing
the reading they're neither a critic of
the course nor they're neither satisfied
nor dissatisfied but attending classes
and writing essays is this kind of
unwanted punctuation in a you know a
kind of for your vacation in their lives
that's most of what I see around me and
that's that's the other aspect of
aneesa's praise at university it seems
very alien to me is that she says this
instills work ethic so she already said
that the user gave his work ethic loose
what you're talking about everyone I
know who goes to university I think the
worst thing is that it lulls them into
this tremendous laziness it's it's four
years we have much less of a work ethic
than you'd have working at Starbucks let
alone join the military the thing that's
really disappointing to me is I feel
like I quit University not because I had
better and greater things to do I quit
it because it was not for me because I
didn't want to put in the effort and for
whatever reason in my dumb eight child
brain I was like I would rather work two
jobs then go to school and to be honest
I took it for granted that being said if
you are dropping out of university if
you have dropped out of university or
whatever it is that is not money wasted
I remember when I quit university I was
bawling and I basically said to my dad I
feel like I wasted a bunch of money and
my dad said did you learn something and
I said well yeah of course I did and he
said well then it wasn't money wasted so
for me that's got to be falsifiable
right what did you learn you know and
aren't you open to the idea that some
people learned nothing or some people
learned so little that they can't
justify fifty thousand dollars worth of
debt
for it as they learned you know you
can't just dogmatically state everyone
learns critical thinking everyone learns
a work ethic or everyone makes great
colleagues it's the most mind-blowing
claim of all colleagues that are gonna
carry you through really I know a lot of
people who went to law school it didn't
come up with a single friend hot people
whatever in law school med school people
study psychiatry people who study
philosophy came out without a single
friend or colleague with a one other
person who's even interested in
philosophy or the same era philosophy
boy let's not even get into religious
studies it's a real hothouse but if
that's the claim you're gonna make is
well you learned something and learning
something anything is worth any price
obviously there's no way anyone could
live with that if you if you took that
seriously if you really do find that
were a piece of paper no matter how
prestigious it is isn't going to
guarantee you a job ever what's going to
guarantee you a job is work ethic and
really believing yourself and getting up
and trying again and again and again I
think that it's not about the piece of
paper that you get at the end of it I
think it's everything else that you get
during it this is the 21st century
religion this is like the white middle
class work ethic religion and what are
you gonna say sorry I mean Anissa and I
both I think we I think neither one of
us counts as white she's half Arab I'm
half Jewish were probably half cousins
three times remember you know whatever
but I mean you know I was applying for
jobs today where the only thing that
mattered was my university toufool that
was it and you had to click a box I have
a university diploma that's relevant I
have a university diploma that's
irrelevant that's not one of the suburbs
they want and then I don't have
University diploma but I have an excuse
you could fill in that box there were
three there was a checklist for you to
click with job nope and you know the
other thing this has come up even with
some of the jobs I've left for did so do
is come over say there are jobs where I
just say to my girlfriend's straight up
look they'd hire you but not me they'd
hire a cute female that hire a
good-looking female but not a
scary-looking dude physical appearance I
mean again that's why I said white
middle-class American religion you know
I think I think black people in America
are just much more acutely aware of the
extent to which your appearance just
utterly shapes your fate in the free
market do it unbelievable extent but
nothing nothing could be less true I
mean sorry yes a piece of paper matters
I mean yeah it's not it's not that
having a piece of paper is desirable
it's that it's a requirement right there
were jobs I was applying for in Taiwan
and it's like oh no if you don't have
this piece of paper then the government
won't give you the work visa so you can
legally live here and stay here and do
this job so do you think you can be a
school teacher do you think you can be a
kindergarten teacher do you think you
can be a nurse do you think you can be a
doctor if you were the client if you
were the customer would you hire someone
to be the architect who designs your
home if they don't have a piece of paper
saying they're an architect would you
pay someone to cut you open and perform
heart surgery on you if they didn't have
a piece of paper saying they were
qualified to be a surgeon on and on it
goes and the terrifying thing is yeah it
reaches down to the humblest most most
pathetic most pitiable of jobs that you
know the tyranny of the pieces of paper
of having having required certificates
and degrees you can't get a job as a
dishwasher here without getting a series
of pieces of paper right you eat your
food safe diploma is this series of like
you know safety and hygiene diplomas you
get from the government and so on just
to wash dishes in the back of a
restaurant so no we're living in the era
when yeah the tyranny of appearances is
one thing but then sure the tyranny of
of pieces of paper I don't think I'm
gonna be offered a single job I applied
for today I don't think a single one's
gonna respond pawsley but if they do
it'll be because I had that diploma I
had the right University diploma for the
job and there weren't ten other people
who had the same stuff that's you know
not enough people showed up on that
particular day to apply for that
particular job I think that it's not
about the piece of paper that
you get at the end of it I think it's
everything else that you get during it
that being said if you value the
opportunities that come from
post-secondary and you value the feeling
of completion and you value having a
little bit of guidance and a kind of a
transition period into adulthood by all
means you know keep doing University
keep pushing on because it does not hurt
to have some sort of work ethic
instilled into you it's the same as
somebody who goes into the army or
anything else it's like it's not
if you versity you wake up whenever you
want to wake up you go to class when you
want to go to class you mentioned this
you only want to about 40% of our
classes so she said shake this amazing
transformative experience that gave her
critical thinking skills the rest your
life but you only went to 40% of your
classes you get drunk when you want to
get drunk you get stoned when you want
to get Strout stoned I'm sorry but
people lead really dissolute lives in
university and university has a
tremendously corrupting influence
specifically on white Americans in the
United States of America I mean I'm not
gonna generalize probably University in
Saudi Arabia university campuses in Iran
not quite the same but no the idea of
university being this kind of Garden of
Earthly Delights they even are our
campus here you why does it look the way
it does
why do university campuses need to have
palatial gyms and swimming pools and
nightclubs is a nightclub right in the
middle of UVic campus right why you know
why do they have these palatial gardens
you know it's much closer to visiting
the Palace of Versailles it's much much
closer to visiting like an 18th century
aristocrats playground right than it is
a place of learning or training right so
you can even see that in the
architecture in the fields what it is
that people are signing up for and but
again okay if you believe this let's
think like Karl Popper let's think
scientifically all right there must be
some way to prove the opposite there
must be something falsifiable here if
you really believe that people getting a
bachelor's degree in English literature
learn a good work ethic we have to be
able to test that hypothesis right and
even if it's true for
1% or 10% of people I don't know
percentages we've got to be able to come
up through social science research
methods with what percentage of people
it's true for and what percentage is
false for and aneisa I've got to tell
you I think for the vast majority of
people University does not give them an
improved work ethic it might all things
considered make them worse off in terms
of working I think yes it sucks
sometimes and yes it's hard but at the
end of the day completing it makes you a
better person so I guess this is also an
announcement video that I will keep
doing YouTube but I am applying for
universities again I would like to
finish my degree I got my transcripts so
this is just something that's important
for me I hope that this helps some
people in some way I was kind of just me
I'll have to get from but you know yeah
thanks for watching and I'll talk to you
guys next time whenever that is but
until then I don't know the story ends I
don't know if Anissa went back to
university had finally had her heart
broken but you know I think each of us
is kind of burdened with an ideal of
what education ought to be and I think
probably each of us is burdened with an
ideal of what being an adult ought to be
and university appeals to these
overlapping senses of idealism and what
an appealing notion that all I have to
do is put on this wicker glove and get
stung by a hundred bees and do a magical
dance in front of a fire and I'm no
longer a child I'm an adult now you know
this has become this defining ritual
that draws a line between you know the
unrefined ruffians of high school and
the presumably polished economically
upwardly mobile middle-class University
educated adult and if you just pause to
ask for one minute what did you learn
you know what did you learn in
university I think it opens up a whole
strange world of recriminations that
most of us don't want to get into
because then we end up reflecting on
just how great the gulf is between that
ideal of what education ought to be and
what it is we actually received
shut up to a nice ajumma I'd be
interested to know how this story ends
did she actually go back to university
did she finish her degree and having
done that and having sat in the
classroom with those other people who
are dragging their feet and showing up
to class hungover and stoned and playing
with their cell phones in during the
lectures and have their laptops open and
are like shap shopping for clothing and
shoes during the professor's lecture
endemic on university campus room maybe
if she actually did go back and have
this experience
maybe she'd have to re-examine her own
idealism and realize um simply put
things are not what they seem